Create a feature selection evaluation template (#250)
ccao-data/model-res-avm: analyses/new-feature-template.qmd

comparison_run_id <- params$comparison_run_id

analyses_paths <- list(
  output = list(
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$assessment_card$s3,
      key = "assessment_card"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$assessment_pin$s3,
      key = "assessment_pin"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$metadata$s3,
      key = "metadata"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$performance_test$s3,
      key = "performance_test"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$shap$s3,
      key = "shap"
    )
  )
)

source("Analysis_helpers.R")
data_new <- model_fetch_run_subset(
  params$run_id,
  params$run_id_year,
  analyses_paths, TRUE
)

list2env(data_new, envir = .GlobalEnv)

rm(data_new)

comparison_paths <- list(
  output = list(
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$assessment_pin$s3,
      key = "assessment_pin"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = base_paths$output$performance_test$s3,
      key = "performance_test"
    )
  )
)

data_comparison <- model_fetch_run_subset(
  params$comparison_run_id,
  params$comparison_run_id_year,
  comparison_paths, TRUE
)

list2env(data_comparison, envir = .GlobalEnv)

rm(data_comparison)

all_vars <- ls()

> 

Author: This is in the helper file, where we rename the appended values to _new and _comp to make the coding easier to read.

# Iterate over all variables and rename if necessary
for (var_name in all_vars) {
  rename_var(var_name, params$run_id, "_new")
  rename_var(var_name, params$comparison_run_id, "_comparison")
}

lockfile_assessment <- metadata_new$dvc_md5_assessment_data

> # Define S3 paths for assessment' data

Author: Adding this to the ingest script still confuses me. The other files are retrieved via buckets. Are there other files that are retrieved in this way (getting the metadata) and then appending it within the path? Do they all follow the exact same structure?

Reviewer: This is the difference between the input data (retrieved via its DVC hash) and the output data (retrieved directly from a file on S3).

    ) %>%
    inner_join(nbhd, by = c("meta_nbhd_code" = "town_nbhd")) %>%
    st_as_sf()
} else {
  pin_nbhd <- pin_individual %>%
    group_by(meta_nbhd_code, !!sym(target_feature_value)) %>%
    count() %>%
    ungroup() %>%
    group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
    mutate(
      percentage = n / sum(n) * 100
    ) %>%
    arrange(meta_nbhd_code, desc(n)) %>%
    mutate(
      plurality_factor = first(!!sym(target_feature_value))
    ) %>%
    ungroup() %>%
    select(meta_nbhd_code, !!sym(target_feature_value), percentage, plurality_factor) %>%
    pivot_wider(
      names_from = !!sym(target_feature_value),
      values_from = percentage,
      names_prefix = "percentage_"
    ) %>%
    inner_join(nbhd, by = c("meta_nbhd_code" = "town_nbhd")) %>%
    st_as_sf()
}

# Pivot wider for leaflet maps to allow multiple shap values
leaflet_data <- card_individual %>%
  select(meta_pin, {{ target_feature_shap }}) %>%
  group_by(meta_pin) %>%
  mutate(
    shap_total = sum(!!sym({{ target_feature_shap }})),
    variable_index = row_number(),
    name_col = paste0(
      deparse(substitute(
        target_feature_shap
      )), "_",
      variable_index
    )
  ) %>%

>   pivot_wider(

Author: In my local drive, I have another pivot wider for the value of the feature, but then it seems like it would just make sense to do card values, rather than pin values, if that is working as the default.

#include <cpp11.hpp>

[[cpp11::register]] void ignore_sigpipes() {
  signal(SIGPIPE, SIG_IGN);
}
")

ignore_sigpipes()

# Initialize a dictionary of file paths. See misc/file_dict.csv for details
paths <- model_file_dict(model_params$run_id, model_params$year)
```

```{r download_new_data}
analyses_paths <- list(
  output = list(
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/performance/year=", params$run_id_year, "/stage=assessment/", params$run_id, ".parquet"),
      key = "performance"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/metadata/year=", params$run_id_year, "/", params$run_id, ".parquet"),
      key = "metadata"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/shap/year=", params$run_id_year, "/run_id=", params$run_id, "/"),
      key = "shap"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/assessment_card/year=", params$run_id_year, "/run_id=", params$run_id, "/"),
      key = "assessment_card"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/assessment_pin/year=", params$run_id_year, "/run_id=", params$run_id, "/"),
      key = "assessment_pin"
    )
  )
)

> fetch_analyses <- function(run_id, year, analyses_paths) {

Author: Just during development because some things take a really long time to download.

    pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp = scales::dollar(pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp)
  )

nbhd <- ccao::nbhd_shp

spatial_data <- working_data %>%
  distinct(meta_nbhd_code, .keep_all = TRUE) %>%
  inner_join(nbhd, by = c("meta_nbhd_code" = "town_nbhd")) %>%
  st_as_sf()
```

# Descriptive Statistics

::: {.panel-tabset}

## Overall

```{r mean_median}
descriptives <- working_data %>%
  summarize(
    mean = round(mean(!!sym(params$added_variable), na.rm = TRUE), 2),
    median = round(median(!!sym(params$added_variable), na.rm = TRUE), 2)
  )

datatable(descriptives,
  options = list(
    scrollY = "300px",
    scrollX = TRUE,
    paging = FALSE,
    searching = FALSE
  ),
  rownames = FALSE
)
```

## Township
```{r mean_median_township}
descriptives_township <- working_data %>%
  group_by(meta_township_name) %>%
  summarize(
    mean = round(mean(!!sym(params$added_variable), na.rm = TRUE), 2),
    median = round(median(!!sym(params$added_variable), na.rm = TRUE), 2)
  )

datatable(descriptives_township,
  options = list(
    scrollY = "300px",
    scrollX = TRUE,
    paging = FALSE,
    searching = FALSE
  ),
  rownames = FALSE
)
```

> ## Neighborhood

Author: This was a Nicole request.

```

### 100 Largest FMV Initial Increases
```{r}
largest_fmv_increases <- working_data %>%
  arrange(desc(diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv)) %>%
  slice(1:100)

# Call the function with the pre-sliced dataset
create_leaflet_map(largest_fmv_increases, "diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv", "Largest FMV Increases")
```

### 100 Largest Initial FMV Decreases

```{r}
largest_fmv_decreases <- working_data %>%
  arrange(diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv) %>%
  slice(1:100)

create_leaflet_map(largest_fmv_decreases, "diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv", "Largest FMV Decreases")
```
## Largest FMV Increase no Multicards

```{r}
largest_fmv_increases <- working_data %>%
  group_by(meta_pin) %>%
  filter(n() == 1) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  arrange(desc(diff_pred_pin_final_fmv)) %>%
  slice(1:100)

create_leaflet_map(largest_fmv_increases, "diff_pred_pin_final_fmv", "Largest FMV Increases")
```
```{r}
largest_fmv_decreases <- working_data %>%
  group_by(meta_pin) %>%
  filter(n() == 1) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  arrange(diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv) %>%
  slice(1:100)

create_leaflet_map(largest_fmv_increases, "diff_pred_pin_final_fmv", "Largest FMV Increases")
```

:::

## Neighborhoods with the Highest and Lowest SHAP Values

> These maps identify neighborhoods where the added variable is having the largest impact on SHAP values. By selecting neighborhoods with the highest mean(absolute value), you can take a closer look at how individual houses in these neighborhoods are affected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These maps identify neighborhoods where the added variable is having the largest impact on SHAP values. By selecting neighborhoods with the highest mean(absolute value), you can take a closer look at how individual parcels in these neighborhoods are affected.
```

::: panel-tabset
```{r processing_SHAP_values}
working_data <- working_data %>%
  group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
  mutate(
    mean_value = mean(abs(!!sym(paste0(params$added_variable_shap))), na.rm = TRUE)
  ) %>%
  ungroup()

selected_neighborhoods <- working_data %>%
  distinct(meta_nbhd_code, .keep_all = TRUE) %>%
  arrange(mean_value) %>%
  slice(c(1:2, (n() - 1):n())) %>%
  pull(meta_nbhd_code)

# Filter the data to include only the selected neighborhoods
selected_data <- working_data %>%
  filter(meta_nbhd_code %in% selected_neighborhoods)

# Separate high and low standard deviation neighborhoods
high_mean_data <- selected_data %>%
  filter(meta_nbhd_code %in% selected_neighborhoods[(length(selected_neighborhoods) - 1):length(selected_neighborhoods)])

low_mean_data <- selected_data %>%
  filter(meta_nbhd_code %in% selected_neighborhoods[1:2])
```

### 2 Lowest SHAP Neighborhoods

```{r}
create_leaflet_map(low_mean_data, params$added_variable_shap, "SHAP Values")
```

### 2 Highest SHAP Neighborhoods

```{r}
create_leaflet_map(high_mean_data, params$added_variable_shap, "SHAP Values")
```

:::

## Within Neighborhood Largest Values

> Disparities may also be seen at the individual house level, and may be present within neighborhoods of all types, we select the top and bottom 10 SHAP values for each neighborhood. Because neighborhoods with *very* high FMVs have comparatively higher SHAP values, we also create a relative score, which can be understood as what percentage of the houses value is determined by this variable. This allows a comparison of within-neighborhood impact, while accounting for intra-neighborhood differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These maps display the top and bottom 10 SHAP values by parcel for each neighborhood. Because neighborhoods with *very* high FMVs have comparatively higher SHAP values, we also use a relative score, the percentage of a parcel's value determined by the new feature. This allows a comparison of within-neighborhood impact, while accounting for intra-neighborhood differences.
```

::: panel-tabset

> ### 10 Highest SHAP Values per Neighborhood

Reviewer 2: Can we add neighborhood borders to these maps?

# write_parquet(assessment_pin_comparison, "assessment_pin_comparison.parquet")
# write_parquet(model_performance_assessment_comparison, "model_performance_assessment_comparison.parquet")
# write_parquet(shap_comparison, "shap_comparison.parquet")
# write_parquet(metadata_comparison, "metadata_comparison.parquet")
```

```{r}
assessment_data <- read_parquet("assessment_data.parquet")
assessment_pin <- read_parquet("assessment_pin.parquet")
assessment_card <- read_parquet("assessment_card.parquet")
performance <- read_parquet("performance.parquet")
shap <- read_parquet("shap.parquet")
metadata <- read_parquet("metadata.parquet")
assessment_pin_comparison <- read_parquet("assessment_pin_comparison.parquet")
model_performance_assessment_comparison <- read_parquet("model_performance_assessment_comparison.parquet")
shap_comparison <- read_parquet("shap_comparison.parquet")
metadata_comparison <- read_parquet("metadata_comparison.parquet")
```

```{r data_processing}
assessment_data_small <- assessment_data %>%
  select(meta_pin, meta_card_num, meta_nbhd_code, loc_longitude, loc_latitude, meta_township_name, !!sym(params$added_feature))

# Create a card level dataset

> working_data_card <- shap %>%

Author: I'm not a huge fan of how the join works, but the mapping function at the bottom requries both card and pin level data. Let me know if you have a preference in how it should work, but I tried my best to seperate out the pin level characteristics (fmv's / the added feature) from card level characteristics.

  select(meta_pin, meta_card_num, pred_card_shap_baseline_fmv, !!sym(params$added_feature)) %>%

>   rename(!!params$added_feature_shap := !!sym(params$added_feature)) %>%

Author: I used !!sym throughout but it's really unweildy. Do we want it just saved as an object?

    median_card_value = median(pred_card_initial_fmv, na.rm = TRUE)
  ) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  inner_join(assessment_pin %>% select(meta_pin, pred_pin_final_fmv, pred_pin_initial_fmv), by = "meta_pin") %>%
  rename(
    pred_pin_final_fmv_new = pred_pin_final_fmv,
    pred_pin_initial_fmv_new = pred_pin_initial_fmv
  ) %>%
  inner_join(assessment_pin_comparison %>% select(meta_pin, pred_pin_final_fmv, pred_pin_initial_fmv), by = "meta_pin") %>%
  rename(
    pred_pin_final_fmv_comp = pred_pin_final_fmv,
    pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp = pred_pin_initial_fmv
  ) %>%
  mutate(
    shap_relative = percent((!!sym(params$added_feature_shap) / pred_card_initial_fmv), accuracy = 0.01),
    diff_pred_pin_final_fmv = round(pred_pin_final_fmv_new - pred_pin_final_fmv_comp, 2),
    pred_pin_final_fmv_new = scales::dollar(pred_pin_final_fmv_new),
    pred_pin_final_fmv_comparison = scales::dollar(pred_pin_final_fmv_comp),
    diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv = round(pred_pin_initial_fmv_new - pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp, 2),
    pred_pin_initial_fmv_new = scales::dollar(pred_pin_initial_fmv_new),
    pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp = scales::dollar(pred_pin_initial_fmv_comp)
  )

> temp_pin <- working_data_card %>%

Author: Creates the pin level characteristics that we need (which need neighborhood grouping)

      median_value = median(!!sym(params$added_feature), na.rm = TRUE)
    ) %>%
    ggplot(aes(x = !!sym(params$added_feature))) +
    geom_histogram(fill = "blue", color = "black", alpha = 0.7) +
    geom_vline(aes(xintercept = mean_value, color = "Mean"), linetype = "dashed", linewidth = 1, show.legend = TRUE) +
    geom_vline(aes(xintercept = median_value, color = "Median"), linetype = "dashed", linewidth = 1, show.legend = TRUE) +
    scale_color_manual(
      name = "Statistics",
      values = c(Mean = "red", Median = "green"),
      labels = c("Mean", "Median")
    ) +
    labs(
      x = params$added_feature,
      y = "Frequency"
    ) +
    theme_minimal()
} else if (params$type == "categorical") {
  category_percentages <- working_data_pin %>%
    count(!!sym(params$added_feature)) %>%
    mutate(percentage = n / sum(n) * 100)

  ggplot(category_percentages, aes(x = !!sym(params$added_feature), y = percentage)) +
    geom_bar(stat = "identity", fill = "blue", color = "black", alpha = 0.7) +
    labs(
      x = params$added_feature,
      y = "Percentage"
    ) +
    theme_minimal()
}
```

## FMV Change Histogram

> This chart shows the distribution of the value of 'diff_pred_pin_initial_fmv' in the model with the added feature minus the model without the added feature. Outliers outside of 95% are removed to make the chart more readable. The largest 100 increases and decreases are displayed in maps in section X. 

Author: A good number of charts are bounded within 95%. For this dataset, there are characteristics which go to 30,000 feet which really skew the charts.

      !!sym(params$added_feature) <= quantile(!!sym(params$added_feature), 0.975, na.rm = TRUE)
  ) %>%
  mutate(
    mean_value = mean(!!sym(params$added_feature), na.rm = TRUE),
    median_value = median(!!sym(params$added_feature), na.rm = TRUE)
  ) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = !!sym(params$added_feature))) +
  geom_histogram(fill = "blue", color = "black", alpha = 0.7) +
  geom_vline(aes(xintercept = mean_value, color = "Mean"), linetype = "dashed", linewidth = 1, show.legend = TRUE) +
  geom_vline(aes(xintercept = median_value, color = "Median"), linetype = "dashed", linewidth = 1, show.legend = TRUE) +
  scale_color_manual(
    name = "Statistics",
    values = c(Mean = "red", Median = "green"),
    labels = c("Mean", "Median")
  ) +
  labs(
    x = "SHAP Value",
    y = "Frequency"
  ) +
  theme_minimal()
```

:::

## Correlation between Added feature and Other features

Here, the goal is to see if the added feature *very* neatly aligns with other existing features. Columns are produced with both the absolute value of the correlation (for easy sorting), as well as the correlation to help decipher the direction of the relationship.

```{r correlation between features}

> clean_column_values <- function(df, column_name) {

Author: Do we have a dict for shortening variables. It seems really useful. Even this cleaning doesn't really do much for graphics.

Reviewer: There is indeed a renaming function: [`ccao::vars_rename()`](https://ccao-data.github.io/ccao/reference/vars_rename.html). It probably needs its dictionary updated, but should work for the majority of features.

  # Loop through each numeric column and calculate correlation and absolute correlation
  for (col_name in names(numeric_cols)) {
    # Filter out rows with missing values in the two columns being compared
    complete_cases <- complete.cases(numeric_cols[[col_name]], assessment_data[[params$added_feature]])

    # Only compute correlation if there are complete cases
    if (sum(complete_cases) > 0) {
      correlation_value <- cor(numeric_cols[[col_name]][complete_cases], assessment_data[[params$added_feature]][complete_cases], use = "complete.obs")
      abs_correlation_value <- abs(cor(abs(numeric_cols[[col_name]][complete_cases]), abs(assessment_data[[params$added_feature]][complete_cases]), use = "complete.obs"))
      correlation_results <- rbind(correlation_results, data.frame(Feature = col_name, Correlation = correlation_value, Abs_Correlation = abs_correlation_value))
    }
  }

  # Sort the correlation results in descending order by Correlation
  correlation_results <- correlation_results %>%
    arrange(dplyr::desc(Abs_Correlation)) %>%
    mutate(across(where(is.numeric), ~ round(., 2)))

> 

Author: Slices for correlation matrix

    options = list(
      scrollY = "300px",
      scrollX = TRUE,
      paging = FALSE,
      searching = TRUE
    ),
    rownames = FALSE
  )

  return(datatable_chart)
}

# Generate the overall summary table
added_feature <- params$added_feature
overall_summary_table <- create_summary_table(ranked_overall_medians, added_feature)

# Calculate median values for each township and rank features
ranked_shap_df <- shap_df_filtered_long %>%
  group_by(township_code, feature) %>%
  mutate(
    median_abs_shap = median(abs(shap), na.rm = TRUE),
    median_shap = median(shap, na.rm = TRUE)
  ) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  distinct(township_code, feature, .keep_all = TRUE) %>%
  group_by(township_code) %>%
  arrange(desc(median_abs_shap), .by_group = TRUE) %>%
  mutate(rank_abs = row_number()) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  inner_join(ccao::town_dict, by = c("township_code" = "township_code"))

# Generate the township-specific tables
township_names <- unique(ranked_shap_df$township_name)
shap_tables <- lapply(township_names, function(name) {
  township_data <- ranked_shap_df %>%
    filter(township_name == name)
  create_summary_table(township_data, added_feature)
})
```

> ### Overall SHAP Summary

Author: These have interactive elements, and I think that is what hinders the iterative formatting

Reviewer: **suggestion:** FWIW, @jeancochrane figured out a way to do this for leaflet maps that may also work in this case.

  datatable(
    options = list(
      scrollY = "300px",
      scrollX = TRUE,
      paging = FALSE,
      searching = TRUE
    ),
    rownames = FALSE
  )
```

## Correlation between SHAP and the Added Feature

```{r shap_feature_correlation}
correlation_value <- cor(pull(working_data_card, params$added_feature_shap), pull(working_data_card, params$added_feature), use = "complete.obs")
```

If the added feature leads to a significant change in predicted values, its correlation with the SHAP values should have a high absolute value. That correlation is `r round(correlation_value, 2)`.

```{r shap_feature_plot}
num_digits <- working_data_card %>%
  pull(!!sym(params$added_feature_shap)) %>%
  max(na.rm = TRUE) %>%
  floor() %>%
  as.character() %>%
  str_length()

if (params$type == "continuous") {
  working_data_card %>%
    select(meta_card_num, meta_pin, !!params$added_feature_shap, !!params$added_feature) %>%
    mutate(bin = cut_number(!!sym(params$added_feature), n = 10, dig.lab = num_digits)) %>%
    ggplot(aes(x = bin, y = !!sym(params$added_feature_shap))) +
    geom_boxplot(fill = "#69b3a2") +
    theme_minimal() +
    xlab("Feature Value") +
    ylab("SHAP Value") +

>     scale_x_discrete(labels = function(x) {

Author: Really weird formatting based on the cut_number function

```{r neighborhood_change}
assessment_pin %>%
  select(meta_pin, loc_longitude, loc_latitude, pred_pin_final_fmv) %>%
  rename(pred_pin_final_fmv_new = pred_pin_final_fmv) %>%
  inner_join(assessment_pin_comparison, by = "meta_pin") %>%
  rename(pred_pin_final_fmv_comparison = pred_pin_final_fmv) %>%
  group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
  summarize(
    median_fmv_new = median(pred_pin_final_fmv_new, na.rm = TRUE),
    median_fmv_comparison = median(pred_pin_final_fmv_comparison, na.rm = TRUE),
    fmv_ratio = (median_fmv_new / median_fmv_comparison) / median_fmv_comparison
  ) %>%
  inner_join(nbhd, by = c("meta_nbhd_code" = "town_nbhd")) %>%
  st_as_sf() %>%
  ggplot() +
  geom_sf(aes(fill = fmv_ratio)) +
  scale_fill_viridis_c(option = "viridis", name = "FMV Ratio", labels = scales::percent_format(accuracy = 0.001)) +
  theme_void() +
  coord_sf(xlim = c(-88.4, -87.52398), ylim = c(41.5, 42.2))
```

:::

```{r leaflet_function}
create_leaflet_map <- function(dataset, legend_value, legend_title, order_scheme = "high", longitude = "loc_longitude", latitude = "loc_latitude") {

>   # Filter neighborhoods that have at least one observation

Author: Do we want an include /exclude based on neighborhood borders?

Reviewer: Not sure what this means. Can you clarify?

Author: Do we want all maps to have neighborhood borders? Some maps show all neighborhoods, others only show a few.

Reviewer: If we're showing all neighborhoods then we probably don't want borders, if it's just a couple then I find borders useful.

  nbhd_borders <- nbhd %>%
    right_join(dataset, by = c("town_nbhd" = "meta_nbhd_code"))

>   # Create the color palette based on order_scheme

Author: Negative numbers should be darker

::: panel-tabset

### 10 Highest SHAP Values per Neighborhood

```{r}
top_10_data <- working_data_card %>%
  group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
  top_n(10, wt = !!sym(paste0(params$added_feature_shap))) %>%
  ungroup()

create_leaflet_map(top_10_data, params$added_feature_shap, "SHAP Values")
```

### 10 Lowest SHAP values per neighborhood

```{r}
bottom_10_data <- working_data_card %>%
  group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
  top_n(-10, wt = !!sym(paste0(params$added_feature_shap))) %>%
  ungroup()

create_leaflet_map(bottom_10_data, params$added_feature_shap, "SHAP Values", order_scheme = "low")
```

### 10 Highest Relative SHAP values per neighborhood

```{r}
top_10_data_relative <- working_data_card %>%
  mutate(shap_relative_value = !!sym(params$added_feature_shap) / median_card_value) %>%
  group_by(meta_nbhd_code) %>%
  top_n(10, wt = shap_relative_value) %>%
  ungroup()

create_leaflet_map(top_10_data_relative, "shap_relative_value", "Relative SHAP Values")
```
### Bottom 10 Relative SHAP Values per Neighborhood
```{r}

> bottom_10_data_relative <- working_data_card %>%

Author: This was Nicole's request, but we can also tie it to an individual card / pin.

          # Read the Parquet file and append it to combined_data
          temp_data <- arrow::read_parquet(local_temp_path)
          if (is.null(combined_data)) {
            combined_data <- temp_data
          } else {
            combined_data <- dplyr::bind_rows(combined_data, temp_data)
          }
        }
        data_list[[analyses_path$key]] <- combined_data
      } else {
        warning(analyses_path$key, " does not exist for this run")
      }
    } else {
      message("Now fetching: ", analyses_path$s3)
      if (aws.s3::object_exists(analyses_path$s3, bucket = bucket)) {
        local_temp_path <- file.path(tempdir(), basename(analyses_path$s3))
        aws.s3::save_object(analyses_path$s3, bucket = bucket, file = local_temp_path)
        data_list[[analyses_path$key]] <- arrow::read_parquet(local_temp_path)
      } else {
        warning(analyses_path$key, " does not exist for this run")
      }
    }
  }

  tictoc::toc()
  return(data_list)
}

data <- fetch_analyses(params$run_id, params$run_id_year, analyses_paths)

performance <- data$performance
metadata <- data$metadata
shap <- data$shap

> assessment_card <- data$assessment_card %>%

Author: We don't currently use the added feature from cards. My assumption is everything should be on pin, but just want to verify.

Author: Distance to new construction is likely best analyzed on the pin level. Are there features which are best used on card level? 
What unit do we want 'added feature' attached to?

Reviewer: It depends on if the feature is card-level (dwelling sqft, something based on the building, etc.) or PIN-level (almost everything based on geography, anything related to sales, etc.).

---
title: "New Feature Template"
subtitle: "Run ID: `r params$added_feature`: `r params$description`"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
author: "Cook County Assessor's Office Data Department"
execute:
  echo: false
  warning: false
  asis: true
format:
  html:
    embed-resources: true
    toc: true
    toc_float: true
    fig-align: center
    fontsize: 12pt
params:
  run_id: "2024-07-03-charming-boni"
  run_id_year: "2024"
  comparison_run_id: "2024-07-09-cool-takuya"
  comparison_run_id_year: "2024"
  added_feature: "prox_nearest_new_construction_dist_ft" 
  added_feature_shap: "prox_nearest_new_construction_dist_ft_shap"
  description: "A distance in feet to the nearest new construction"
  min_range: 5
  max_range: 95

>   type: "continuous"

Author: It's a flexible parameter for if we expect improvement based on a specific range. For example, distance to new construction would likely be most indicative between 5 and 95 feet (un-coded as feet).

>   type: "continuous"

Reviewer: Sorry, should've clarified the ask here: just add documentation/comments on these so people know their purpose (or rename them so their purpose is more obvious).

>   type: "continuous"

Author: Since we got rid of the manual ratio stats calculation, we don't use the range anymore. The only other thing I could think of doing it for is a scatterplot, but we can also just drop it.

      key = "performance"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/assessment_pin/year=", params$comparison_run_id_year, "/run_id=", params$comparison_run_id, "/"),
      key = "assessment_pin"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/shap/year=", params$comparison_run_id_year, "/run_id=", params$comparison_run_id, "/"),
      key = "shap"
    ),
    list(
      s3 = paste0("s3://ccao-model-results-us-east-1/metadata/year=", params$comparison_run_id_year, "/", params$comparison_run_id, ".parquet"),
      key = "metadata"
    )
  )
)

data_comparison <- fetch_analyses(params$comparison_run_id, params$comparison_run_id_year, analyses_paths)

metadata_comparison <- data_comparison$metadata
model_performance_assessment_comparison <- data_comparison$performance
shap_comparison <- data_comparison$shap

assessment_pin_comparison <- data_comparison$assessment_pin %>%
  select(meta_pin, pred_pin_final_fmv, sale_ratio_study_price, meta_nbhd_code, meta_triad_code, pred_pin_initial_fmv, meta_township_code)
```

> ```{r}

Author: Agreed

  if (!is.null(group_var)) {
    data <- data %>%
      group_by(across(all_of(group_var)))
  }

  result <- data %>%
    summarize(
      num_pin_no_class = n(),
      num_sale_no_class = sum(!is.na(sale_ratio_study_price)),
      rs_lst = list(map(rs_fns_list, ~ exec(.x, pmax(pred_pin_initial_fmv, 1), sale_ratio_study_price))),
      ys_lst = list(map(ys_fns_list, ~ exec(.x, sale_ratio_study_price, pred_pin_initial_fmv))),
      median_ratio = median(pred_pin_initial_fmv / sale_ratio_study_price, na.rm = TRUE),
      .groups = ifelse(is.null(group_var), "drop", "keep")
    ) %>%
    unnest_wider(rs_lst) %>%
    unnest_wider(ys_lst)

  return(result)
}

df_stat_no_group <- compute_stats(assessment_pin)
df_stat_triad <- compute_stats(assessment_pin, "meta_triad_code")
df_stat_township <- compute_stats(assessment_pin, "meta_township_code")
df_stat_nbhd <- compute_stats(assessment_pin, "meta_nbhd_code")

df_stat_no_group_comparison <- compute_stats(assessment_pin_comparison)
df_stat_triad_comparison <- compute_stats(assessment_pin_comparison, "meta_triad_code")
df_stat_township_comparison <- compute_stats(assessment_pin_comparison, "meta_township_code")

> df_stat_nbhd_comparison <- compute_stats(assessment_pin_comparison, "meta_nbhd_code")

Reviewer: **issue:** If you've run the model through the full pipeline and/or used Batch to run it, then these stats should already exist in the `model.performance` table. No need to recalculate them.

Author: Doesn't it only produce on the triad that it runs on?

Author: Edit again: When I run the query for S3, I get information for the target triad only. When I run a query like 
`select *
from model.performance
where model_run = 'whatever`
I get the correct information.

shap_tables[[23]]
```

###  `r township_names[24]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[24]]
```

###  `r township_names[25]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[25]]
```

###  `r township_names[26]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[26]]
```

###  `r township_names[27]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[27]]
```

###  `r township_names[28]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[28]]
```

###  `r township_names[29]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[29]]
```

###  `r township_names[30]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[30]]
```

###  `r township_names[31]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[31]]
```
###  `r township_names[32]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[32]]
```

###  `r township_names[33]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[33]]
```

###  `r township_names[34]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[34]]
```

###  `r township_names[35]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[35]]
```

###  `r township_names[36]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[36]]
```

###  `r township_names[37]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[37]]
```

###  `r township_names[38]`

```{r, results = 'asis'}
shap_tables[[38]]
```

:::

> ## SHAP Comparison

Reviewer: **suggestion:** I would scrap this since it didn't yield anything useful, though its utility may improve if you don't enable CV and use the same hyperparams across the baseline v new run.

Author: I agree, I left everything in for the time being in case you had thoughts on it.

```{r shap_comparisons}
shap_comparison %>%
  inner_join(shap, by = c("meta_card_num", "meta_pin")) %>%
  select(-c(meta_pin, meta_card_num, meta_year.x, meta_year.y)) %>%
  rename_with(~ sub("\\.x$", "_comp", .), ends_with(".x")) %>%
  rename_with(~ sub("\\.y$", "_new", .), ends_with(".y")) %>%
  mutate(across(ends_with("_new"), ~ . - get(sub("_new$", "_comp", cur_column())), .names = "{sub('_new$', '_diff', .col)}")) %>%
  summarize(
    across(ends_with("_diff"), list(
      median_change = ~ median(.),
      median_abs_change = ~ median(abs(.))
    )),
    across(ends_with("_comp"), list(median_comp = ~ median(.))),
    across(ends_with("_new"), list(median_new = ~ median(.)))
  ) %>%
  pivot_longer(cols = everything(), names_to = c("feature", ".value"), names_sep = "_diff_|_comp_|_new_") %>%
  arrange(feature) %>%
  clean_column_values("feature") %>%
  mutate(across(where(is.numeric), dollar, scale = 1, accuracy = 0.01)) %>%
  datatable(
    options = list(
      scrollY = "300px",
      scrollX = TRUE,
      paging = FALSE,
      searching = TRUE
    ),
    rownames = FALSE
  )
```

## Correlation between SHAP and the Added Feature

```{r shap_feature_correlation}

> correlation_value <- cor(pull(working_data_card, params$added_feature_shap), pull(working_data_card, params$added_feature), use = "complete.obs")

Reviewer: **question:** How would this line work for categorical features?

```

If the added feature leads to a significant change in predicted values, its correlation with the SHAP values should have a high absolute value. That correlation is `r round(correlation_value, 2)`.

## Box Plot comparing SHAP and the Added Feature

> ```{r shap_feature_plot}

Reviewer: **suggestion:** There are pre-made packages for doing this that will make your life much easier. We're basically aiming to make [these plots](https://github.com/ModelOriented/shapviz/blob/main/man/figures/README-dep.png) from the `shapviz` package.

Author: These plots don't scale well to very large variable lists. We usually subset the 25 best indicators. Would it make sense to do the 10 + - from the variable we are looking at?

Reviewer: I would make these for the top 10 features. For categoricals, you might be able to split up the categorical range into small multiples plots or similar.

Author: I'd assume that the vast majority of our new metrics won't be included in the top 10 features.
